In the current lesson, we will create our own Task, which will randomly calculate the location
and the NPC will patrol the scene, moving between the generated points.
To create an asset for a Task in a blueprint, just click on the new task button in the behavior tree.
We will create a task in C ++. Therefore, we go to the folder with C ++ classes. Open the AI ​​directory.
Let's create a new C ++ class. Click show all C ++ classes. The base class for Task is called BTTaskNode.
We will inherit from it. Let's call the class STUNextLocationTask.
Let's create an additional directory in the AI ​​folder, name it tasks and go to visual studio
Open the build. The first thing we do is add the tasks directory.
We need to add two additional modules to work with AI. The first is called GameplayTasks
and the second is called NavigationSystem. Let's make a build. Right -click
on the project and select build. The build succeeded. We can go to the header file of our task.
Let's declare all the functions and properties that we need to work. We need a
constructor. We will need the constructor purely for cosmetic purposes. There we will define the name of the node
that will be displayed in the editor. Let's click on the base class F12, we will fall into the header
file of the task. To describe our logic for finding a random point, we need a function
called ExecuteTask. This function is called when the execution of our task begins.
We need to override it in the NextLocationTask class. Let's also add override
and additionally we need 2 properties. We will calculate a random point in a certain
radius relative to our character. To do this, let's create a property Radius.
Let's assign some default value to the variable. Let there be 1000 units.
The second property will store the blackboard key, into which we will write the random point we calculated.
The type is called FBlackboardKeySelector. It's a structure. Let's call it AimLocationKey.
That's all we need in the header file. Let's create a body for
the ExecuteTask constructor and function in the appropriate .cpp file.
First, let's add all the header files that we need: 1 header file BehaviorTree / BlackboardComponent.h
The next header file is AIController.
And the last header file that we need is NavigationSystem.h
Let's start with the constructor. There will be only one line in the constructor. The base class has a variable called NodeName.
Its value is displayed in the visual node, in the editor. Our node will be called NextLocation.
Let's go to the ExecuteTask function. In this function, we will calculate a random point around the character
and write this point to the blackboard. Let's start. Create a local variable, call it Controller.
We can get the pointer to the NPC controller through the OwnerComp variable,
which has the UBehaviorTreeComponent type.
The component function that returns a pointer to AAIController is called GetAIOwner.
The second local variable will be called blackboard. It will store a pointer to the current board.
We can also get the pointer to the blackboard via OwnerComp. The function that returns the
pointer is called GetBlackboardComponent. Next, we need to check that the controller
and blackboard are non-null pointers. If one of them is zero, then our task exits with the Failed status.
To do this, we must return the appropriate enum value. If we press F12, we will see
that there are several statuses. We need to return Failed with you.
Let's write this down. The next thing we need is a pointer to the pawn.
To do this, we create a local variable, call it Pawn and get the pawn through the controller.
To do this, we call the controller function GetPawn.
We also check the pointer to nullptr, if it is null, then we return the Failed status.
Next, we need a pointer to the NavigationSystem, a special class that describes the current navigation system.
We need it to find a random point. We create a local variable. Let's call it NavSys.
To get a pointer to the navigation system,
you need to call the GetCurrent static function of the UNavigationSystemV1 class.
This function takes a UObject as a parameter. We will pass a pawn to it.
We also check NavSys for nullptr.
The NavigationSystem function that returns a random point is called GetRandomReachablePointInRadius.
It calculates an arbitrary point on the nav mesh where our character can go.
This function has a pathfinding algorithm under the hood.
That is, if this function finds a point, then we are one hundred percent sure
that the path from the current point, where the pawn is located, to the point that we calculated exists.
The function has several parameters - this is the center, relative to which we are looking for the home point.
This center is the position of our pawn, so we can pass Pawn-> GetActorLocation ().
The second parameter is the search radius. We pass our property Radius.
The third parameter is passed by reference. It will return the directly found point.
Let's pass some variable there, call it NavLocation and before calling the function
we need to create it. The type of the FNavLocation variable. Also, the function is evaluated by true or false,
that is, the point may not be found. Therefore, we need to check the return value.
Let's create an additional local variable where we will write the
return value of the function. Let's name the variable found.
And after calling the function, we check if the point is not found, then we return the Failed status.
And if the point is found, then all we have to do is write this variable to the blackboard.
To do this, we call the SetValueAsVector function, we used this function in the blueprint. It has two parameters: the
first is the name of the key. We get the name of the key through our AimLocationKey structure.
The field where the key name is stored is called SelectedKeyName. The second parameter is directly FVector.
We will get this value from the NavLocation.Location field and at the end of the function we need
to return a successful status - Succeeded. That is, we calculated the point, recorded it in the blackboard. Everything ended successfully.
We wrote our first task. The function may seem scary on the one hand,
but nothing supernatural happens here. We just get all the objects we need and call
the GetRandomReachablePointInRadius function. Let's start editor and add our task to the behavior tree.
First, let's go to the blackboard. Rename Location1 to AimLocation. We'll just delete Location2.
We also delete all tasks except one - MoveTo. And the first task in the sequence will be our
C ++ task - STUNextLocationTask. The node is called "Next Location". We did this in the constructor.
In the details panel, we see our two properties, the radius and the blackboard key AimLocation,
where we will write our point. In the MoveTo task, the key must also be specified AimLocation.
This sequence will run indefinitely. Each time there will be a new point.
Open up the blueprint of the controller. Delete all nodes except RunBehaviorTree. We will soon transfer it to C ++ too.
Checking. We look at the NPC.
Each time a random point is calculated on the navigation and npc runs to this point. Everything works as intended.
Let's see what happens if the task returns a Failed status.
Subsequent tasks are not launched in this case. Let's temporarily add a Wait node.
Let's put two seconds. The library has a special task called FinishWithResult.
With its help, we can test the work of statuses.
If the task returns the Succeeded status, then the whole chain is working, MoveTo is called. Things are good.
Now let's replace the result with Failed.
We save. We start the game. Let's see what happens. The NextLocation task calls us, the
Wait task and FinishWithResult ends with the Failed status. Therefore, MoveTo is simply not called
and our character does not run anywhere. That's all in this lesson, let's delete the test nodes.
Our tree still looks simple enough, but soon it will get more complicated.